---
title: "Speech - Robotics In The Workforce"
date: 2014-05-12
excerpt: "The idea of robots taking over the economy."
header:
    image: //fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/baxter-robot-e1429416178284.jpg?w=1024&h=436&crop=1
tags:
    - automated
    - automated jobs
    - automation
    - economy
    - jobs going to robots
    - northwestern university
    - oral comm
    - oxford university
    - robotics
    - robots
    - speech
    - technological dependence
    - workforce
---

> #### This was a speech I made for my Oral Communications class regarding the idea of technology (robots) taking over the economy.



Today I'll be discussing past and current examples of technological
dependence in the economy. To get a better sense of this age old fear of
technology replacing humans, we also have to go back in time. So in
essence I will be looking at past and current examples of robotics
shifting the workforce and how they will influence future circumstances.



So according to a study published by Oxford University, after the 1950s
(not too far back), librarians had become a very large profession. When
the mainframe computer came out, however, in 1957, librarians were
deathly afraid they were going to lose their jobs. That didn't end up
happening. Jobs continued to increase for librarians for a long time
afterwards. It wasn't until about 40 years after the mainframe computer
came out, in the 1990s, that the profession started and continues today
to face a steep decline. During the 1990's, the grand Internet came into
play as well as the widespread use of the personal computer. It's clear
less librarians are needed for a job that can be rapidly automated. Need
a book recommendation? There's an app for that. Need help finding a
book? Online catalog has your back. It won't be long before librarians
aren't needed at all, with increasing digital book sales these days.

The same idea applies to spreadsheets. Spreadsheets back in the day were
literally large pieces of paper and the accountants did calculations by
hand. Again, when the personal computer came into play, mundane
calculations were left to the computers and programs like Excel replaced
the best accountants.

Going back to an older example, when the Great Depression hit, 20% of
the US population were farmers



Now, transitioning to today, farmers consist of about 2% of the
population, even though food production is at all time high. The US
continues to produce more with less.

In this day and age, using software developed by Northwestern
University, a company called Narrative Science specializes in
machine-generated stories. Initially specializing in sports news, the
application automatically generated the numerically oriented stories. It
has since attracted other sectors including health care, retail,
pharmaceuticals and marketing and has significantly improved its human
indistinguishability and raised over 40 million to further improve its
artificially intelligent algorithms.

What about drug store pharmacists? Well, they're not going to be
replaced quite yet. Recently though, the University of California San
Francisco Medical Center launched an automated, robotics-controlled
pharmacy at two UCSF hospitals. Once computers electronically receive
medication orders, the robots pick, package, and dispense individual
doses of pills. The pharmacy system which works with a few specialized
human pharmacists has so far prepared 350,000 doses of medication
without a single error.

Then there's Baxter. Meet Baxter everyone. And make sure to congratulate
him too. On February 17 of this year, this \$22,000 robot successfully
worked 2,160 straight hours (90 days) in a molding factory in
Pennsylvania where he had to grab plastic parts off an assembly line,
place them in a box with appropriate separators, and then count them to
make sure each box had the same number of plastic parts. This sort of
task usually requires 6 willing employees since the work is often
monotonous, mundane, and extremely dirty. The number of Baxter's that
have been made so far are still in the 100s but the company Rethink
Robotics boasts about \$80 million in venture capital. Baxter represents
a long-term view of the way technology will transform work, lives, and
culture, much like the industrial revolution did in the 18th century.



Speaking of the future, the advantages robots have today against humans
will still hold later. Robots are never bored or tired, make fewer
mistakes, more efficient, don't ask for raises, can work during
SuperBowl season or holidays, are more physically powerful, save
companies millions, no liabilities and can be put in dangerous
locations, higher production, better quality, faster, and the list goes
on.

Most robots have already replaced the typical labor worker. But in the
past 30 years, according to a study done by The Economist which was
published this January, software and robots have even thrived at
replacing the average-wage, middle-skill, routine-heavy worker. The
style of the study by the way, is an academic paper, not popular science
and according to this same inquiry, nearly half of American jobs today
could be automated "in a decade or two". So which half?

Fortunately, the study also provided a chart of jobs with a percent
likelihood of being replaced by machines and software. They are mostly
routine-based jobs (telemarketing) and work that can be solved by smart
algorithms (tax preparation). On the flip side, we see that jobs like
dentists, athletic trainers, and chemical engineers are less likely to
be replaced because they require more high levels of creativity,
emotional intelligence, and physical flexibility, which are all
components robots will continue to lack for a while.

Technological advances are contributing to declining costs in robotics.
Over the past decades, robot prices have fallen about 10 percent
annually and are expected to decline at an even faster pace in the near
future (naturally in part due to Moore's Law). It's clear then that in
order for workers to win the race against the machine, they will have to
acquire high levels of creative and social skills.



Evidence has been provided from the past, present, and future. Robotics
, technology in general, has, is, and will provide major breakthroughs
in the economy that one must be prepared to adapt to if they want to
continue possessing a job.

In the 19th century we saw the steam engine, rail way, the light bulb.
20th century, the automobile, TV, nuclear weapons, space craft,
Internet. 21st century, biotech, nano-tech, fusion, fission, AI,
robotics.

Should it surprise any of you that we will soon be able to create
cybernetic individuals that are indistinguishable from us, let alone
have an abundance of superior robots that will replace all the mundane
routine jobs many have today? Something to think about.
