---
title: "Review - Limbo"
date: 2014-09-22
excerpt: "Expressing my gratitude."
header:
    image: //fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/limbo-featurebanner.jpg?w=1024&h=435&crop=1
tags:
    - app store
    - boys
    - death
    - fragile
    - infants
    - inside
    - limbo
    - limbo game
    - lord of the flies
    - mac
    - playdead
    - playdead games
    - Sketch
    - spider
    - theology
    - trial and death
    - unbaptized
    - walkthroughs
---

[![Limbo
Logo](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/aac70-limbo_logo.png)](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/aac70-limbo_logo.png)

**It's been roughly 3 years (July 2010) since Limbo was first released
to the Xbox 360 platform.**

Since then, it went on to accommodate practically every other major game
platform besides the very much new Xbox 1. I myself first became
familiar with the title back in 2012, a few months after it was released
to the App store on Macs. It already had a decent number of reviews. I
could tell it was going to be something big, because all the reviews
were pretty much 5 stars *(ya DERP)*.

And you know, from time to time, I'll perform this mechanic sort of
robotic operation: look up new games on the App Store, evaluate their
reviews, watch a few minutes of game play, try out game.
`if (game == awesome) {stop} else {repeat}`

[![Munch,
munch](//www.blogcdn.com/www.joystiq.com/media/2011/12/limboxmas-530.jpg)](//www.blogcdn.com/www.joystiq.com/media/2011/12/limboxmas-530.jpg)
Munch, munch

The graphics are pretty much what got to me. Those spider legs without
the rest of the body (initially anyhow), the boys with spears in their
hands which made me recall how strange the book "*Lord of the Flies*"
was for me, the turret machine guns, that `HOTEL` sign - they all looked
so ominous, so macabre, so depressing. I liked how the blood itself
wasn't even red and glaring, it was just black liquid. And how
everything in the game was a hue of black or white.

//www.youtube.com/watch?v=cHjt8LNaUT8

***Spider running, log saving.***

Dubbed as a "*trial and death*" kinda game *(which are my favorite kind,
tbh)*, Limbo ended up as my first experience in gaming where my
character first ended up getting killed by a box. That's right. Just a
friggin' box. Yes... the first time I died in the game was when I let a
box fall on top of the weird boy.

So then I realized pretty quickly that I need to treat this little kid
like an ACTUAL kid. He was fragile and he didn't have any super powers,
besides being a decent runner and jumper and honestly we could just
assume he has ADHD or something so there you go. I mean, he was just
supposed to be this kid that had to, for whatever reason, endure this
sort of strange purgatory filled with objects and creatures and other
little kids that just wanted to kill him off… which is all kind of sad
in a screwed up kinda way, but while you're helping him evade all the
blood loss, your hope for his future only swells too... you know, in a
kind of screwed up pitiful kinda way.

Even so, while the hope increases, the excitement after death only does
too. The addiction. If some of these puzzling, think of out of the box
type situations don't appease you, then the back story will. One of the
best parts of this game for me was being able to resist cheating. If you
cheat, the game is basically ruined. You don't have that sense of joy
that you received from finishing it anymore. Of course, if you do want
to cheat, there's always YouTube…

![125,000 possible LIMBO
walkthrough
videos](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/screenshot-2014-09-22-12-10-20.png) 125,000 possible LIMBO walk through videos…

There isn't any clear story line in this game, which is always cool
because you can make one up yourself. The only characters you really get
introduced to in the game are giant spiders and their giant legs *(not
to mention their carcasses)*, no face boys that are trying to kill you
*(see below for a picture of their leader)*, and this equally creepy
girl that you only see twice the entire game, in the beginning and in
the end.

![Limbo Crossover: The
leader of the no face boys Slender
Man](//th00.deviantart.net/fs71/PRE/f/2013/048/c/4/limbo_ft__slender_man_by_iresarts-d5vaea7.png) Limbo Crossover: The leader of the no face boys… Slender
Man

So bam, right there, that whole beginning and then the creepy girl
instance at the end made some people theorize that the game itself is
just an never ending instance of this boy's **LIMBO**, because he just
ends up in the same place again. Initially, I just thought okay so
there's this boy that I control and he really wants to reunite with his
girlfriend/sister. Okay, cool, let's play.

![Girlfriend
or
sister?!](//fc05.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2012/176/a/7/welcome_to_limbo_by_kumonokuni-d54ums6.png) Girlfriend or sister?!

After I finished the game, I was kinda confused, so I went ahead and did
a standard Google search and it all made a whole lot more sense - at
least when it comes to the origin of the title and why there's no adults
or teenagers *(darn)* in this game.

You see, Oxford Dictionary tells me that in Christian theology,
"*limbo*" is this place where all the unbaptized *infants* reside.
*Unbaptized infants*. I mean, geez. Who would have thought that they
would have a special little place for even **those** guys?? NOT ME, BRO.
NOT ME. An equally sinister second definition is "*limbo*" being defined
as a state of neglect or oblivion, e.g., "*children left in an emotional
limbo*". Now, someone tell me it's not even weirder that the example
sentence for the second definition was that EXACT same thing I just
typed: "***children left in an emotional limbo***". All I gotta say is…
***SKETCHHHHHH***! Considering all the subtle horrific encounters I went
through while in Limbo, either theory makes sense. The subtlety too, man
- that gets to you!

![Pyamid Head chilling
with all these hanging (unbaptized?)
kids](//fc04.deviantart.net/fs71/i/2012/034/3/3/pyramid_head_in_limbo__by_z0h3-d4oj0fa.jpg) Pyramid Head chilling with all these hanging (unbaptized?)
kids…

Anyhow, hoped you enjoyed this review! Be sure to check out the sweet
fan artwork that feature Limbo crossovers and check out their sweet new
game when it comes out called [**INSIDE**](//playdead.com/inside/)
(featured below).

//www.youtube.com/watch?v=op4G1--kb-g

***OMGGGGG***

Until then, cheers!

> Tips or Tricks?
>
> Tweet me at [@fvcproductions](//twitter.com/fvcproductions)
