---
title: "Binding of Isaac - Review ðŸ’€"
date: 2016-02-27
excerpt: My review of the 'Binding of Isaac' desktop game.
header:
    image: //fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/bindingofisaac.jpeg
tags:
    - apocalypse
    - background
    - binding
    - binding of isaac
    - binding of isaac review
    - bloody game
    - conquest
    - damage
    - death
    - envy
    - famine
    - featured
    - game
    - game review
    - games
    - gaming
    - gluttony
    - greed
    - hearty
    - indie game
    - isaac
    - lust
    - max's head
    - meat boy
    - mini
    - oss
    - minions
    - mom
    - monsters
    - morbid
    - mother
    - pestilence
    - pride
    - randomly generated
    - re-birth
    - religion
    - religious
    - review
    - screenshots
    - seven deadly sins
    - sins
    - sloth
    - spoiler
    - spoilers
    - traumatized
    - war
    - wrath
---

[![Binding of
Isaac](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/bindingofisaac.jpeg)](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/bindingofisaac.jpeg)

> **WARNING** SPOILERS AHEAD.

This is going to be a quick game review onÂ **[The Binding of
*Isaac*](//store.steampowered.com/app/113200/)**.

*TLDR:* Just play the bloody game.
==================================

Â 

*In all honesty, between work and school, I've had very little time to
play games let alone try to review my experience with them.*

*However, I just had to make an exception since this review has been on
my mind for such a long time.*

Background
----------

If you're not already familiar with **[The Binding of
*Isaac*](//store.steampowered.com/app/113200/)**, you essentially
control this little bald child called *Isaac* who is being chased down
by his psychotic overly religious mother.

Being an atheist, this background story resonated a lot with me from the
get-go. You see, when you start the game, they give you a small glimpse
of *Isaac*'s life before it went haywire.

//www.youtube.com/watch?v=4UvCYpmsfNE

*Isaac* was living with his mother, who enjoyed watching religious TV
shows all day long. He was fine with it since he was mostly left to play
with his toys in his room all day.

However, one day â€“ and I'm assuming this was a result of too much
religious TV, his mother hears the voice of *God* and this voice in her
head starts telling her to minimize the amount of sins her son *Isaac*
has in his life.

What that meant for *Isaac* was no more possessions of any kind so no
more toys or even clothes (which is just gross).

Now at this point, *Isaac* is very sad because he doesn't have a lot
going for him besides having to succumb to his mother's crazy psychotic
wishes that some voice in her head told her were necessary.

### It gets worse...

*Isaac* at this point is already in a pretty desolate state physically
and mentally but then his mom gets one last message from *God*. *God*
tells her that in order to show her true love for him, she must make the
ultimate sacrifice. Given that the protagonist's name has biblical
references, most people can assume what this means for him.

His own mother tries to murder him.
-----------------------------------

Â 

![Mother
Murdering](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/cfafc-tboi-24.png)

Â 

And of course, at this point, it's up to you to decide whether she
succeeds or fails. When he is stuck in his room, all naked and pitiful,
*Isaac* looks through the knob door and sees his own mother with a
butcher knife in her hand. In a state of panic, he attempts to flee by
going through the trap door in his room (how bloody convenient) that
leads to the basement (which is *btw*, **HUMONGOUS**).

Â 

![Final
Boss](//i.ytimg.com/vi/CQf_IGtA8_k/maxresdefault.jpg)

*The final boss in the basement is Isaac's mother, btw.*

MAJOR SPOILER
-------------

HOWEVER, it turns out the plot thickens.

![REAL PLOT](//i.imgur.com/Ucwvi.jpg)

This is, of course, where all the real fun begins.
==================================================

Â 

By having such a very morbid ambiance all throughout the game, **[The
Binding of *Isaac*](//store.steampowered.com/app/113200/)**
successfully communicates what a terrible situation *Isaac* is really
in.

Here he is, battling all these fascinating and creepy looking monsters,
each with their own quirk while trying to make sure to avoid the most
twisted monster of all - his own mother. The message of how low one can
sink when in isolation and in rejection is very obvious.

I tend to wear my heart on my sleeve (unfortunately), so I couldn't help
but feel a terrible pity towards *Isaac*. It's probably one of the
primary reasons I kept wanting to engage in the game constantly.

I still distinctly remember one instance where I actually shed some
tears for the character when he picked up a special item and it turned
out it was **Max's Head**, which was a severed dog's head. I assumed it
was *Isaac*'s own dog and the game lets you know that he is instantly
*traumatized and gains a very wide-eyed stare*.

![Maxs
Head](//vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/bindingofisaac/images/a/ab/Maxs_Head_Icon.png/revision/latest?cb=20120707135906)

Â 

At this point, I become deeply saddened because I put myself directly in
the shoes of *Isaac*. If I had the severed head of my dog, I would have
been entirely heartbroken and yes, severely traumatized.

It's no wonder that the item multiplies the damage stats of *Isaac* by
so much.

![In-Game
Appearance](//vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/bindingofisaac/images/4/40/Maxs_Head_Isaac.png/revision/latest?cb=20130128122345)

> What doesn't kill you makes you stronger, I suppose.

Features
--------

One of the unique qualities of the game is the randomly generated
environments. It's also not possible to save a game in a directory or
anything. Because of this, if you wanted to really advance to the
deepest and darkest levels, you'll have to really play a while and hope
you don't get killed.

Because once *Isaac* dies, there is no saved point of entry. It's back
the very beginningÂ or in this case, the first level of the basement. A
lot of other players feel this is one of the more annoying qualities of
the game but I can't help but feel it's what makes the game all the more
entertaining since you have to either set yourself to play a while or
not. It makes casual gaming a lot easier as well, which I can appreciate
since I try to keep myself busy.

Another feature of the game I found entertaining (instead of just
convenient) was the diversity of all the monsters. At the end, they
would join hands to fight against you which only made it more
appropriate in my eyes.

![Monsters](//i.ytimg.com/vi/BagNR03izGE/maxresdefault.jpg)

A more interesting aspect of the monsters at the mini-boss level is how
they represent the seven deadly sins:

1. Envy
2. Pride
3. Gluttony
4.  Sloth
5.  Greed
6.  Wrath
7.  Lust

[![7 Deadly
Sins](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/screenshot-2016-02-27-01-37-42.png)](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/screenshot-2016-02-27-01-37-42.png)

I feel like these monsters, in particular, were designed so carefully so
as to accurately represent the given sin. It's quite amazing.

Another aspect of the monsters especially that I found fascinating were
the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. They only are able to pop up once
you've completed the game all the way through once (i.e. *Isaac*
successfully killed Mom).

[![Headless
Horseman](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/screenshot-2016-02-27-01-44-03.png)](//fvcproductions.files.wordpress.com/2016/02/screenshot-2016-02-27-01-44-03.png)

Once I realized that every horseman can drop a cube of meat, I looked
forward to battling them every time I entered a boss room at the end of
each floor.

*You see, a cube of meat means being able to create your own friend,
**Meat Boy***.

![First
Stage](//vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/bindingofisaac/images/4/41/Meat1boy.png/revision/latest?cb=20130125213417) First Stage

![Second
Stage](//vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/bindingofisaac/images/c/cb/Meat2boy.png/revision/latest?cb=20130125213448) Second Stage

![Third
Stage](//vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/bindingofisaac/images/a/aa/M3atboy.png/revision/latest?cb=20130125213846) Third Stage

![Fourth
Stage](//vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/bindingofisaac/images/f/fd/Meat4boy.png/revision/latest?cb=20130125213925&format=webp) Fourth Stage

There are four cubes required for a fully formed **Meat Boy** which are
only dropped by the headless horsemen (naturally, right?). And you
really do want to have **Meat Boy** as your friend because **Meat Boy**
is strong and helpful. He'll damage your enemies on touch and act as
your personal bodyguard of sorts. It's *awesome*!

In terms of characters, unlocking all of them takes a while (I actually
never got to this point myself). With each new character, you either
receive a lot better stats than you would with normal Isaac or just more
items to start the game out with (i.e. with blondie, you would start out
with a lot more hearts or life).

![Characters](//sickr.files.wordpress.com/2014/10/binding_of_isaac_who_am_i.jpg)

The Best Part
-------------

#### Having your own crew.

This sounds strange at first, but the game isn't all blood and gore.
It's a friendly kind of macabre. *Isaac* can gain his own friends. The
first time one of the little creatures joined my crew, I was quite
joyous. Suddenly, *Issac* wasn't in this alone. He had help from his
crew. He was the leader of something. He was forming a revolution.

![Friends](//sickr.files.wordpress.com/2015/04/the_binding_of_issac_rebirth.jpg)

Â 

Or in other words, if you've ever watched *Minions*, it's basically like
when one of the characters shouts out

### BUDDIES!!!

![Buddies -
Minions](//www.minionmovie.com.au/images/shareimage.jpg)

In-Game Screenshots
-------------------

TODO: [gallery type="rectangular" size="full"
ids="3872,3873,3871,3864,3865,3866,3867,3868,3869,3870" ]

A *Hearty* Conclusion
----

Even if you're not into the horror genre of games, I'd give *Isaac* a
shot because he's in desperate times and he deserves all the help he can
get.

![Died](//i1.wp.com/www.owengrieve.com/caps/2011-10-02_1128.png?resize=600%2C338)

Happy re-birthing.
==================

Â 



> Tips or Tricks?
>
> > Tweet me [@fvcproductions](//twitter.com/fvcproductions).
